## Tag s0.domain.1
* Create first version of bounded context as child maven modules
* Introduce JPA/H2 as repository layer.
### Domain Driven Design
DDD(Domain Driven Design) is a software design approach focusing on modelling software to match a domain according to input from that domain's experts.
So it's a methodology to mapping problems in real word to computer software solutions.
* Problem Space (Real World)
  * Domain:  A sphere of knowledge, influence, or activity. The subject area to which the user applies a program is the domain of the software.
  * Subdomain: A subset of domain. It's used to sort out complex problems and scale down the scope of problem, each subdomain should have a corresponding expert.
* Solution Space (Computer Software)
  * Model: A system of abstractions that describes selected aspects of a domain and can be used to solve problems related to that domain
  * Bounded Context: A description of a boundary within which a particular model is defined and applicable
  * Ubiquitous Language: A language structured around the domain model and used by all team members within a bounded context to connect all the activities of the team with the software

DDD has two distinct phases:
* Strategic DDD: defining the large-scale structure of the system. (subdomain, bounded context)
* Tactical DDD: a set of patterns to create the domain model. (entities, aggregates, and domain services , ubiquitous language)

Strategic DDD is helpful to identity the problem space while tactical DDD is helpful to identity the solution space.
People used to pay a lot of attention to tactical DDD to design domain models, but before that strategic DDD should be applied first.
Since Strategic DDD is consistent with the ideology of microservices, it's often used to define the granularity of a service.
To apply strategic DDD, the first step is to identify subdomains. Domain is the application’s problem space, while subdomains is a segment of the problem space:
* Core Domain
  * What makes system worth, competitive.
  * Critical & Fundamental, high priority
  * Most experienced developer
* Supporting subdomain
  * What supports core functionality
  * Ancillary functionality, middle priority
  * Inexperienced developer or outsourcing
* Generic subdomain
  * What facilitate the business
  * Low priority
  * Purchased or outsourced

A bounded context is simply the boundary within a domain where a particular domain model applies.
Domain is the logical boundary, while bounded context is the physical boundary.
- Domain --> Subdomain
- Model -->  Bounded Context --> Ubiquitous Language

For the domain of box office, we can divide it to five subdomains: user, movie, cinema, trade and payment.
Among the five domains, trade is the core domain definitely. cinema and movie can be classified as supporting domain.
user and payment is generic domains, users information will totally depend on other platform, payment can be based on Wechat or Alipay.

The first version of implementation, we mapped each subdomain to a bounded context. To simplify things, we didn't include user domain.
So they are obo-trade, obo-cinema, obo-movie and obo-payment.

### H2 Database
H2 is a relational database management system written in Java. It can be embedded in Java applications or run in client-server mode.
It's lightweight, and useful for testing. Spring Boot can integrate it very easily, just adding its driver to the dependencies.
```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.h2database</groupId>
  <artifactId>h2</artifactId>
  <scope>runtime</scope>
</dependency>
```
The H2 database provides a browser-based console, Spring Boot can auto-configure it when the H2 driver is in the classpath.
The following configuration needs to be added to enable it:

`spring.h2.console.enabled=true`

The H2 console path is '/h2-console' by default. You can change it by specifying `spring.h2.console.path`.
But as a embedded database, it's not very powerful. Do not use it in the production environment. Some framework doesn't support H2.
We may have to replace it in the coming implementation. But it's really a good choice for testing and developing.

### JPA
JPA(Jakarta Persistence API, formerly Java Persistence API) is a specification that describes the management of relational data in Java.
It defines API, JPQL(Jakarta Persistence Query Language) and ORM(Object Relationship Mapping). Spring Boot provides a quick way to get started with JPA.
To enable it, just adding the following dependency:
```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
  <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-data-jpa</artifactId>
</dependency>
```

Spring JPA provides easier way to define Entity, Repository. BTW, Entity/Repository are all from DDD tactical concept.
Before creating any Entity and Repository, we need configure a datasource for it:
```yaml
spring:
  datasource:
    username: obo
    password: obo
    url: jdbc:h2:mem:cinemadb
    driver-class-name: org.h2.Driver
```
By default, Spring Boot uses [HikariCP](https://github.com/brettwooldridge/HikariCP) as datasource for its performance and concurrency.
Specifying `spring.datasource.type` if you want to use a different type of datasource. Then we should define entities by JPA annotations.
In hibernate, an entity must have one identifier which should annotated by @Id. Other properties can be mapped to columns by @Column.
The definition of entity is the object relationship mapping. When entities are ready, we can define repository interfaces.
Spring Boot provides some basic implementation of the data operations, such as insert, update or query by id.
It also provides a mechanism to query data based the name of methods.
See [here](https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/jpa/docs/current/reference/html/#repository-query-keywords) for more information.


Although JPA simplify the development of repository, but it will also complicate thing if the database tables need to be sharded.
Other alternative ways for database layer may be Spring JDBC or MyBATIS. We will replace it with MyBATIS when the database tables need sharding.

### RestfulTool
Restful Tool is a plugin of IDEA, it's very useful while testing REST API.

## Try yourself 
Follow the instructions to finish the tasks
### Add a cinema
1. start obo-cinema
2. POST http://localhost:8080/obo/cinema, input body as:
```json
{
  "name": "new cinema",
  "address": {
    "province": "Beijing",
    "city": "Beijing",
    "street": "new street"
  },
  "location": {
    "longitude": 120.0,
    "latitude": 47.0
  },
  "telephone": "13333333333"
}
```
3. GET http://localhost:8080/obo/cinema, check the result
4. Open http://localhost:8080/h2-console to check database
### Add a movie
1. stop obo-cinema and start obo-movie
2. POST http://localhost:8080/obo/movie, input body as:
```json
{
  "name": "Avatar",
  "duration": "PT2H",
  "format": "IMAX 3D",
  "introduction": "A story about planet colony",
  "releaseDate": "2023-09-23T22:47:02"
}
```
3. GET http://localhost:8080/obo/movie, check the result
4. Open http://localhost:8080/h2-console to check database

When you try obo-movie REST API, please note the JSON format for Movie.duration(java.time.Duration) and Movie.releaseDate(java.util.Date). 
The default format for java.time.Duration should follow '**_P_**xx**_T_**xx'. For example, 'PT2H' represents 2 hours, 'P2DT1H30M' represents 2 days and 1 hour 30 minutes.
The default format for java.util.Date is "yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss.SSSX'.