## Tag s0.domain.2
* Introduce obo-schedule
* SpringDoc
### New Bounded Context
Remember involving domain experts while applying DDD. Let's review the definition of DDD:
DDD is a software design approach focusing on modelling software to match a domain according to **_input from that domain's experts_**.
So you can see, the knowledge of domain must be from domain's experts not technical guys.
By analyzing box office [trading transaction script](../obo-trade/README.md) from domain's experts,
we found some new words: 'schedule','seat','ticket','price'....

We should clarify the 'price' from experts, is it a price of a 'movie'? Or is it a price of a 'ticket'?
Movie do has a price, but it should be the price between the cinema and the moviemaker. In online box office, the price should be for a ticket not for a movie.
So here you can see, the concept 'price' is not inconsistent within domain, we need 'Bounded Context' to separate them.
And we also get [scheduling movies transaction script](../obo-schedule/README.md) from experts, it's an important daily work for cinema managers.
Then we will know a ticket is actually a seat of a movie's schedule in one cinema. So the new bounded context should be obo-schedule.

Transaction script is a pattern from book 'Patterns of Enterprise Application Architecture' written by Martin Fowler.
It organizes business logic by procedures where each procedure handles a single request from the presentation.
In UML, transaction script is as same as use case specification, and it's very useful to establish the system models.

DDD gives a pattern to establish the contact between experts and technical guys.
It helps us to avoid the trap of letting organizational boundaries or technology choices dictate the design.
In our case, a new domain 'obo-schedule' is identified by doing so.

### SpringDoc
[springdoc-openapi](https://springdoc.org/) java library helps to automate the generation of API documentation using spring boot projects.
springdoc-openapi works by examining an application at runtime to infer API semantics based on spring configurations, class structure and various annotations.
To enable it, just adding the dependency to the project:
```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springdoc</groupId>
    <artifactId>springdoc-openapi-ui</artifactId>
    <version>${springdoc-openapi-ui.version}</version>
</dependency>
```
The Swagger UI page will then be available at `http://server:port/context-path/swagger-ui.html`
and the OpenAPI description will be available at the following url for json format: `http://server:port/context-path/v3/api-docs`
* server: The server name or IP
* port: The server port
* context-path: The context path of the application

Documentation can be available in yaml format as well, on the following path : /v3/api-docs.yaml

If you want to add some description for the REST API, you can use @Operation to annotate the REST method in controller.
See [ScheduleController](../obo-schedule/src/main/java/com/github/budwing/obo/schedule/controller/ScheduleController.java) as an example.

### Repository
Spring Boot Data supports using some keywords to define the querying logic in repository interfaces.
[ScheduleRepository](../obo-schedule/src/main/java/com/github/budwing/obo/schedule/repository/ScheduleRepository.java) shows some examples.
For more information, see [here](https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/jpa/docs/current/reference/html/#repository-query-keywords).

In this implementation, repositories are injected to controllers directly. And it will be an obstacle when the business becomes more and more complex.
And entities are also used in controller directly, it's not a right way either.
We will introduce Service and DTO(Data Transfer Object) in the coming versions.
Service is domain model from DDD, while DTO is originated in Martin Fowler's 'Patterns of Enterprise Application Architecture'.

## Try yourself
Follow the instructions to finish the tasks
### Swagger UI
1. start obo-cinema
2. access http://localhost:8081/swagger-ui.html in web browser
3. try POST /obo/cinema and then GET /obo/cinema

### Familiar with the business: add and get a schedule
1. read [business script](../README.md) first
2. start obo-schedule
3. POST http://localhost:8084/obo/schedule, input body as:
   ```json
   {
   "cinemaId": 1,
   "hallId": 1,
   "movieId": "Avatar II",
   "startTime": "2023-09-24 10:15:00",
   "endTime": "2023-09-24 12:20:00"
   }
   ```
**_Note: modify the data to the current time_**
4. Open http://localhost:8084/h2-console, check whether the data inserted
5. GET http://localhost:8084/obo/schedule/cinema/1, see the schedule