## s0.spring.boot
Introduce Spring Boot Framework to the project. 

### Dependencies
Normally Spring Boot will be added as parent module of the project like the following:

```xml
    <parent>
        <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
        <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-parent</artifactId>
        <version>2.7.1</version>
    </parent>
```

If the project already has parent, Spring Boot dependencies should be added to dependency management:

```xml
    <dependencyManagement>
        <dependencies>
            <dependency>
                <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
                <artifactId>spring-boot-dependencies</artifactId>
                <version>${spring-boot.version}</version>
                <type>pom</type>
                <scope>import</scope>
            </dependency>
        </dependencies>
    </dependencyManagement>
```
As a child of Spring Boot or adding Spring Boot Dependencies, it will make the project easier to manage the version conflicting between dependencies.

### Application
The main class should be annotated by @SpringBootApplication, and put into the base package of the project.
Because Spring Boot will scan all the classes in the package and its sub-package. If there are other classes outside base package, 'scanBasePackages' can be used to specify the packages.

### Configuration
Spring Boot supports two configuration format: Properties and YAML. By default, the file name is application.properties and application.yml(.yaml).
Different suffix can also be added to represent different environment, see some examples of the file name:
* application-prod.yml
* application-test.yml
* application-dev.yml

Whatever suffix is appended, the main configuration file is still application.yml. The following content should be added in the main configuration file to active one profile:

```yaml
spring.profiles.active: test
```

application-test.yml will be used by specifying the above configuration.

### Run
Spring Boot applications DO NOT need to be deployed on web application servers like Tomcat, WebLogic and so on. 
It includes an embedded Tomcat instance. Spring Boot introduce a new format of JAR file, so that the application can be run based on a single jar.
The following plugin should be added in the pom file.
```xml
    <build>
        <plugins>
            <plugin>
                <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
                <artifactId>spring-boot-maven-plugin</artifactId>
            </plugin>
        </plugins>
    </build>
```
* maven package
```shell
mvn clean package
cd target
java -jar online-box-office-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar
```
* plugin goal
As a maven plugin, spring-boot-maven-plugin has some goals to run Spring Boot application:
```shell
mvn spring-boot:run
```
The above goal will block the console. You can also use the following command to run in non-block mode:
```shell
mvn spring-boot:start # start and return, running the application background
mvn spring-boot:stop
```
See [Spring Boot Maven Plugin](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.3.0.RELEASE/maven-plugin/reference/html/) for more information.

## Try yourself
Follow the instructions to finish the tasks
### Run Spring Boot
1. In IDEA, click run button to launch application
2. java -jar online-box-office-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar
3. mvn spring-boot:run
4. mvn spring-boot:start
### Change profile
1. change spring.profiles.active value to prod,test,dev
2. check the port changes