## Tag s1.cb.4.Sentinel
Change Resilience4j to Sentinel to be compitable with SEATA

### Overview
While using SEATA, Spring Cloud Circuit Breaker behaves abnormally. The most possible reason is the version conflict.
Spring Cloud Alibaba 2021.0.1.0, is related to Spring Cloud Circuit Breaker 3.1.1. In this version, it didn't support Resilience4j configuration in application.yml file.
But fortunately, Spring Cloud Alibaba provides an alternative solution for circuit breaker. And its functions are much better than Resilience4j if there's no policy restriction.
That is what we used in this tag, Sentinel.

[Sentinel](https://sentinelguard.io/) is a powerful flow-control component enabling reliability (flow control, circuit breaking, adaptive system protection) and real-time monitoring for microservices.
Resource and rule are the key concepts in Sentinel. Resource can be anything that you want to protect, such as a service, a method or even a snippet of code.
Rule defines how you want to protect your resources, the strategies supported by Sentinel include flow control, concurrency limiting, circuit breaking and so on.

Resource is identified by its name normally. Sentinel provides adaptation to integrate with most of the framework like Servlet, gRPC, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud etc.
Rules can be defined in your source code through Sentinel API. But in the production environment, rules should be stored in an indenpendent datasource, such as a file, a database or a configuration center.
Users can modify the rules dynamically, Sentinel will load the rules runtime and make them effective at once.

Sentinel provides a web console, users can monitor services realtime and see the effect of the rules. 
You can download it from [here](https://github.com/alibaba/Sentinel/releases), and run it by the following command:

`java -Dserver.port=8080 -Dcsp.sentinel.dashboard.server=localhost:8080 -Dproject.name=sentinel-dashboard -jar sentinel-dashboard-1.8.5.jar`

Although it's very useful, it's not a crucial component of the system. You don't need set up a cluster for it.

### Configuration
To enable Sentinel in a Spring Cloud application, just adding the following starter:
```xml
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
            <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-validation</artifactId>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>com.alibaba.cloud</groupId>
            <artifactId>spring-cloud-starter-alibaba-sentinel</artifactId>
        </dependency>
```
Then adding the following configuration in application.yml:
```yaml
spring:
  cloud:
    sentinel:
      transport:
        port: 8719
        dashboard: localhost:8080
      datasource:
        ds1:
          file:
            file: classpath:degraderule.json
            rule-type: degrade

feign:
  sentinel:
    enabled: true
```
The port 8719 is used between the services and Sentinel Dashboard to communicate, and `localhost:8080` is the web address of it.

`spring.cloud.sentinel.datasource` sets the datasource of rules. The above configuration uses 'file' as a datasource.
The file is under the root of classpath, and its name is 'degraderule.json', it is used to define degradation rules.

So we need to create a file '[degraderule.json](../obo-trade/src/main/resources/degraderule.json)' under the root of the classpath, and add the following rules:
```json
[
  {
    "resource": "POST:http://obo-payment/obo/payment",
    "count": 5,
    "grade": 2,
    "passCount": 0,
    "timeWindow": 10,
    "statIntervalMs": 30000
  },
  {
    "resource": "PUT:http://obo-schedule/obo/ticket/{ticketId}/status/ordered",
    "count": 5,
    "grade": 2,
    "passCount": 0,
    "timeWindow": 10,
    "statIntervalMs": 30000
  },
  {
    "resource": "PUT:http://obo-schedule/obo/ticket/{ticketId}/status/payed",
    "count": 5,
    "grade": 2,
    "passCount": 0,
    "timeWindow": 10,
    "statIntervalMs": 30000
  }
]
```
See the [following paragraph](#degrade-rule) for explanation. 
Compared with the file, you can also write some code to generate rules:
```java
    private static void loadSentinelRules() {
        List<DegradeRule> rules = new ArrayList<>();
        DegradeRule rule = new DegradeRule("GET:http://obo-cinema/obo/cinema/{cinemaId}/hall/{hallId}/seat")
                .setGrade(CircuitBreakerStrategy.ERROR_COUNT.getType())
                // Max allowed response time
                .setCount(5)
                // Retry timeout (in second)
                .setTimeWindow(10)
                .setStatIntervalMs(20000);
        rules.add(rule);

        DegradeRuleManager.loadRules(rules);
    }
```
See [ScheduleApplication](../obo-schedule/src/main/java/com/github/budwing/obo/schedule/ScheduleApplication.java) in obo-schedule.

### Rule
Rules are applied to resources which are identified by its name. Feign resource name should conform with the following format:

**_`<http method>:<protocol>://<request url>`_**

The above rule is degrade rule, it's one of the Sentinel rules. Sentinel supports the following rules:
#### Degrade Rule
Degrade in Sentinel is something like circuit breaker in Resilience4j. It will break the requests if there are too many errors.
Degrade can prevent cascading failures in distributed system and make the whole system more stable. Degrade rule supports the following strategies, 'grade' is used to configure strategy:
* Slow Request Ratio: Circuit breaking by slow request ratio. We'll need to provide the "upper-bound response time", and requests whose RT exceeds the upper-bound RT will be recorded as a slow request.
  * grade value is 0
  * RuleConstant.DEGRADE_GRADE_RT
* Error Ratio: Circuit breaking by the error ratio (error count / total completed count).
  * grade value is 1
  * RuleConstant.DEGRADE_GRADE_EXCEPTION_RATIO
* Error Count: Circuit breaking by the number of exceptions.
  * grade value is 2
  * RuleConstant.DEGRADE_GRADE_EXCEPTION_COUNT

So the above degrade rule says, Sentinel will block all the requests if there are 5 errors(count) within 30 seconds(statIntervalMs). 
And after 10 seconds(timeWindow), it will recover the request to the resource if there are no errors.
See [here](https://github.com/alibaba/Sentinel/wiki/Circuit-Breaking) for more details.

See [this document](./sentinel.degrade.md) for the definition of JSON configuration fields. 

#### Flow Control Rule
Flow control is something like rate limiter in Resilience4j. It limits the request rate based on statistics.
You can control by either QPS or concurrency. It is defined by the grade field in FlowRule. Both concurrent thread count and request count are collected at runtime.
* Concurrency, grade value is 0, RuleConstant.FLOW_GRADE_THREAD
* QPS, grade value is 1, RuleConstant.FLOW_GRADE_QPS, default

See [here](https://github.com/alibaba/Sentinel/wiki/Flow-Control) for more information. See [this document](./sentinel.flow.md) for the definition of JSON configuration fields.

#### Adaptive System Protection
Adaptive system protection maintains high system throughput under the premise of reliability of the system.
See [here](https://github.com/alibaba/Sentinel/wiki/Adaptive-System-Protection) for more information.

## Try yourself
Follow the instructions to finish the tasks
### Sentinel dashboard
1. download Sentinel dashboard from [its release page](https://github.com/alibaba/Sentinel/releases), and run it by the following command:

    `java -Dserver.port=8080 -Dcsp.sentinel.dashboard.server=localhost:8080 -Dproject.name=sentinel-dashboard -jar sentinel-dashboard-1.8.5.jar`
2. open `http://localhost:8080` in web browser, input sentinel/sentinel as username and password
3. click 'sentinel-dashboard', check the pages under it
### Degrade
1. start mysqld, obo-eureka, obo-seata
2. start obo-schedule
3. PUT http://localhost:8084/obo/schedule/test-sched/status/SALE for 10 times, check the logs
4. open `http://localhost:8080` in web browser, check the pages under 'obo-schedule'
### Flow
1. start obo-cinema
2. GET http://localhost:8081/obo/cinema
3. open `http://localhost:8080` in web browser, check the pages under 'obo-cinema'
4. calculate the sum of reject ones and passed ones