## Tag s1.cb.3.Bulkhead
Bulkhead strategy in Resilience4j

### Bulkhead
If resilience4j-bulkhead is on the classpath, Spring Cloud CircuitBreaker will wrap all methods with a Resilience4j Bulkhead. 
You can disable the Resilience4j Bulkhead by setting spring.cloud.circuitbreaker.bulkhead.resilience4j.enabled to false.
Spring Cloud CircuitBreaker Resilience4j provides two implementation of bulkhead pattern:
* a SemaphoreBulkhead which uses Semaphores
* a FixedThreadPoolBulkhead which uses a bounded queue and a fixed thread pool.

By default, Spring Cloud CircuitBreaker Resilience4j uses FixedThreadPoolBulkhead. 
To modify the default behavior to use SemaphoreBulkhead set the property spring.cloud.circuitbreaker.resilience4j.enableSemaphoreDefaultBulkhead to true.
See the following configuration in [obo-cinema](../obo-cinema/src/main/resources/application.yml):
```yaml
  cloud:
    circuitbreaker:
      bulkhead:
        resilience4j:
          enabled: true
#      resilience4j:
#        enableSemaphoreDefaultBulkhead: true

resilience4j.thread-pool-bulkhead:
  configs:
    default:
      maxThreadPoolSize: 25
      coreThreadPoolSize: 10
  instances:
    obo-cinema:
      maxThreadPoolSize: 5
      coreThreadPoolSize: 2

#resilience4j.bulkhead:
#  configs:
#    default:
#      maxConcurrentCalls: 25
#  instances:
#    obo-cinema:
#      maxConcurrentCalls: 10
```
According to the above configuration, bulkhead will use thread pool to limit the resource consumption. 
The default bulkhead is 10 ~ 25. And 'obo-cinema' bulkhead is 2 ~ 5. Use @Bulkhead to annotate the method you want to protect, and specify the instance name.

### Other Strategies
Besides CircuitBreaker&Bulkhead, Resilience4j also provides the following annotation(strategy):

* @[CircuitBreaker](https://resilience4j.readme.io/docs/circuitbreaker)
* @[Bulkhead](https://resilience4j.readme.io/docs/bulkhead)
* @[Ratelimiter](https://resilience4j.readme.io/docs/ratelimiter)
* @[Timelimiter](https://resilience4j.readme.io/docs/timeout)
* @[Retry](https://resilience4j.readme.io/docs/retry)

Their package name pattern: `io.github.resilience4j.<name>.annotation`.

### Bulkhead vs. Ratelimiter
Although Bulkhead and Ratelimiter are all used to limit the concurrent access number, they are different.

Bulkhead is used on the server side. It usually limits the resource consumption of a specific method. 
It prevents the service from exhausting by a single method's invocation.

Ratelimiter is used on the client side. It limits the invocation of a service. It can protect both client and server.

## Try yourself
Follow the instructions to finish the tasks
### Bulkhead
check the configuration of bulkhead in obo-cinema