## Tag s1.gw.Gateway
Apply API Gateway to secure access from outside
### Spring Cloud Gateway
API Gateway is a component that acts an API front-end, receives API requests, enforces throttling and security policies, passes requests to the back-end service and then passes the response back to the requester.
API Gateway provides a centralized component to manage public API. It can enforce API usage policies like controlling access, and it can unify the publishing of the public API.
At the same time, API gateway gives us a chance to collect usage statistics and report performance of APIs.

There are many OSS that can act as API gateway, such as Nginx, HAProxy, Envoy and so on. You can deploy one of them to be the gateway of your services.
Spring Cloud Gateway is the gateway solution from Spring Cloud, it can be easily integrated with Spring based application.

Some key concepts in Spring Cloud Gateway:
* **_Route_**: The basic building block of the gateway. It is defined by an ID, a destination URI, a collection of predicates, and a collection of filters. A route is matched if the aggregate predicate is true.
* **_Predicate_**: This is a Java 8 Function Predicate. The input type is a Spring Framework ServerWebExchange. This lets you match on anything from the HTTP request, such as headers or parameters.
* **_Filter_**: These are instances of GatewayFilter that have been constructed with a specific factory. Here, you can modify requests and responses before or after sending the downstream request.

By taking the advantage of Spring framework, a public API can be easily configured in Spring configuration file. You just need to add routes for the APIs.
There are two ways to configure predicates and filters: shortcuts and fully expanded arguments. 
* Shortcut 
```yaml
spring:
  cloud:
    gateway:
      routes:
      - id: after_route
        uri: https://example.org
        predicates:
        - Cookie=mycookie,mycookievalue
```
The previous sample defines the Cookie Route Predicate Factory with two arguments, the cookie name, mycookie and the value to match mycookievalue.
* Fully Expanded Argument
```yaml
spring:
  cloud:
    gateway:
      routes:
      - id: after_route
        uri: https://example.org
        predicates:
        - name: Cookie
          args:
            name: mycookie
            regexp: mycookievalue
```
### Predicate Factory
Spring Cloud Gateway matches routes as part of the Spring WebFlux HandlerMapping infrastructure. Spring Cloud Gateway includes many built-in route predicate factories. 
All of these predicates match on different attributes of the HTTP request. You can combine multiple route predicate factories with logical and statements.
We list their name and brief usage introduction here:
* After: matches requests that happen after the specified datetime
* Before:  matches requests that happen before the specified datetime
* Between: matches requests that happen after datetime1 and before datetime2
* Cookie: matches cookies that have the given name and whose values match the regular expression
* Header: matches with a header that has the given name whose value matches the regular expression
* Host: matches the Host header that matches the pattern
* Method: matches the HTTP request methods
* Path: matches the request paths
* Query: matches the query parameter
* RemoteAddr: matches the remote address
* Weight: matches requests based on weight and group
More details and examples can be found [here](https://docs.spring.io/spring-cloud-gateway/docs/current/reference/html/#gateway-request-predicates-factories).

## Try yourself
1. start obo-movie
2. GET http://localhost:8082/obo/movie
3. start obo-gateway
4. GET http://localhost:8080/obo/movie
5. check the configuration in obo-gateway