## Tag s1.gw.Filter.Scoped
API Gateway scoped filter

### Builtin filter
Spring Cloud Gateway includes many built-in GatewayFilter Factories.

#### Header Related Filter
Request header:
* AddRequestHeader GatewayFilter: add header to the downstream request’s headers for all matching requests.
* AddRequestHeadersIfNotPresent GatewayFilter: add header to the downstream request’s headers for all matching requests only if the header is not already there. Otherwise, the original value in the client request is sent.
* SetRequestHeader GatewayFilter: replace header of request.
* SetRequestHostHeader GatewayFilter: replace host header in request.
* MapRequestHeader GatewayFilter: takes fromHeader and toHeader parameters to create new header(toHeader) with value of fromHeader.
* PreserveHostHeader GatewayFilter: set a request attribute that the routing filter inspects to determine if the original host header should be sent rather than the host header determined by the HTTP client.
* RemoveRequestHeader GatewayFilter: removes header before it is sent downstream.

Response header:
* AddResponseHeader GatewayFilter: add header to the downstream response’s headers for all matching requests.
* SetResponseHeader GatewayFilter: replace header of response.
* RewriteLocationResponseHeader GatewayFilter: rewrite location header of response.
* DedupeResponseHeader GatewayFilter: remove duplicate values of response headers in cases when both the gateway and the downstream add them.
* SecureHeaders GatewayFilter: adds a number of headers to the response for security.
* RewriteResponseHeader GatewayFilter: rewrite response header.
* RemoveResponseHeader GatewayFilter: removes header before it is sent to client.

#### Body Related Filter
* CacheRequestBody GatewayFilter: cache the request body before sending it downstream and getting the body from exchange attribute.
* ModifyRequestBody GatewayFilter: modify the request body before it is sent downstream by the gateway.
* LocalResponseCache GatewayFilter: cache the response when the response is for bodiless GET requests, status code 200, 206 or 301, Cache-Control allows cache.
* ModifyResponseBody GatewayFilter: modify the response body before it is sent back to the client.
* RemoveJsonAttributesResponseBody GatewayFilter: provides a convenient method to apply a transformation to JSON body content by deleting attributes from it.

#### Path Related Filter
Change the request path:
* PrefixPath GatewayFilter: add prefix to all requests' path.
* RewritePath GatewayFilter: rewrite request path.
* SetPath GatewayFilter: takes a path template parameter to manipulate the request path by allowing templated segments of the path. 
* StripPrefix GatewayFilter: strip parts of request path segments.

Redirect or adapt to a specific protocol:
* JSONToGRPCFilter GatewayFilter: converts a JSON payload to a gRPC request.
* RedirectTo GatewayFilter: take two parameters, status and url. The status parameter should be a 300 series redirect HTTP code, such as 301. The url parameter should be a valid URL. 
* SetStatus GatewayFilter: set response status.

#### Circuit Breaker or Limitation
* CircuitBreaker GatewayFilter: use Spring Cloud CircuitBreaker APIs to wrap Gateway routes in a circuit breaker.
* RequestRateLimiter GatewayFilter: set request rate and return 429 if request is not allowed, builtin implementation is based on Redis.
* Retry GatewayFilter: set retry policy.
* RequestSize GatewayFilter: limit the request size.
* RequestHeaderSize GatewayFilter: set limitation of header size, send a status of 431 if size of any header is greater than the limit

#### Parameter Related Filter
* AddRequestParameter GatewayFilter: add parameter to the downstream request’s query string for all matching requests.
* RemoveRequestParameter GatewayFilter: remove the parameter before it is sent downstream.

#### Misc
* SaveSession GatewayFilter: forces a WebSession::save operation before forwarding the call downstream.
* TokenRelay GatewayFilter: acts as a OAuth2 Client and forwards the incoming token to outgoing resource requests.

## Try yourself
Follow the instructions to finish the tasks
### Circuit breaker
1. start obo-eureka, obo-gateway
2. GET http://localhost:8080/obo/movie, check the response code
3. remove the following part in obo-gateway application.yml
```yaml
          filters:
            - CircuitBreaker=cinema-circuitbreaker
```
4. restart obo-gateway, GET http://localhost:8080/obo/movie, check the response code