## Tag s1.lb.0.RestTemplate
* RestTemplate as client of REST API
* Introduce service and DTO

### RestTemplate
[RestTemplate](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/current/javadoc-api/org/springframework/web/client/RestTemplate.html) is not a new thing in Spring Boot/Cloud.
RestTemplate is from Spring Framework as a synchronous client to perform HTTP requests.
It is the central Spring class for client-side HTTP access. Conceptually,
it is very similar to the JdbcTemplate, JmsTemplate, and the various other templates found in the Spring Framework.
See [DefaultScheduleService](../obo-schedule/src/main/java/com/github/budwing/obo/schedule/service/impl/DefaultScheduleService.java) as an example.

Objects passed to and returned from the methods getForObject(), postForLocation(), and put() and are converted to HTTP requests and from HTTP responses by HttpMessageConverters.
Converters for the main mime types and Java types are registered by default, but you can also write your own converter and plug it in the RestTemplate.

### Domain Models
Models are the implementation of the solution space, they are defined within a bounded context.
#### Entity vs. Value Object
* Entity: continuity & identity
  * Object is distinguished by its identity, rather than its attributes
  * Keep the class definition simple and focused on life cycle continuity and identity
* Value Object: characteristic & invariant
  * Object is distinguished by its attributes, and does not have identity
  * Treat the value object as immutable, and make all operations side-effect-free

Aggregate is also one kind of model in DDD. It is a cluster of objects treated as a single unit, it’s the pattern to ensure data integrity and enforce invariants.
One aggregate has one root object, all the operation to an aggregate should be put on the root object.
But when sharding is needed, we may have to violate this rule.

#### DTO
DTO is Data Transfer Object, and used to carry data between represent layer and business layer/repository layer.
It’s originated in Martin Fowler's 'Patterns of Enterprise Application Architecture'.
DTO is not a part of the solution space, so it should not be involved in DDD.
Technically, entity and value object can be used directly to transfer data.
But the clients won't want all the data in entity and value object in most cases, and the representation of the data is not always the same as entity and value object.
So DTO must be necessary when the system becomes complex.

You can create one or more DTO for an entity. DTO and entity may be totally same or partially same. One technical way is to create a super class which contains all the attributes.
And let DTO and entity to be its subclass. In the subclass, we define which attributes are required to be exposed.

See [SeatDTO](../obo-cinema/src/main/java/com/github/budwing/obo/cinema/dto/SeatDto.java) and [Seat](../obo-cinema/src/main/java/com/github/budwing/obo/cinema/entity/Seat.java) to understand the difference.

#### Repository & Service
* Service: pure fabrication
  * When a significant process or transformation in the domain is not a natural responsibility of an entity or value object,
    add an operation to the model as a standalone interface declared as a service.
  * Nowadays, service becomes the important component to add logics of business.
* Repository: storage for domain objects
  * It's the access for the storage.
  * Provide repositories only for Aggregate roots that actually need direct access.

Factory is also a model in DDD, it is used to encapsulate the complexity for object creation. Factory can ensure the integrity of aggregates.

## Try yourself
Follow the instructions to finish the tasks
### RestTemplate: change a schedule's status
1. start obo-schedule, add a schedule:
```
POST http://localhost:8084/obo/schedule
{
"cinemaId": 1,
"hallId": 1,
"movieId": "Avatar II",
"startTime": "2023-09-24 10:15:00",
"endTime": "2023-09-24 12:20:00"
}
```
2. open obo-schedule in RestfulTool, GET http://localhost:8084/obo/schedule/cinema/1, copy one of the schedule ID
3. start obo-cinema, PUT http://localhost:8084/obo/schedule/<id>/status/SALE, see the logs of obo-schedule
4. check log of obo-schedule, see what happens. check the source code of ScheduleController/ScheduleService
5. open http://localhost:8084/h2-console, check obo-ticket table
### Entity vs. DTO
1. open entity package of obo-cinema
2. remove @JsonIgnore on the properties of Cinema, Hall and Seat
3. restart obo-cinema
4. open RestfulTool/SwaggerUI, access http://localhost:8081/obo/cinema
5. see what happens and explain why it happens
6. compare Seat and SeatDTO