## Tag s2.db.3.SHARD.JDBC.SEATA
ShardingSphere integrated with SEATA

### MyBATIS
When sharding is applied, the column which decided the sharding rule should always appear in 'where' clause. Otherwise ShardingSphere won't be able to determine the actual table.
For example, 'obo_seat' shards itself by 'cinema_id', so 'cinema_id' should always be a querying condition. If it's not in the 'where' clause, ShardingSphere will have to send the query to all the sharded tables.
It will significantly lower down the performance. It's a little tricky to always include a column in Hibernate/JPA. 
And as the system becomes more and more complex, you will find that you will have to spend a lot of time to just add a column to the SQL statement. 
So finally, we migrated repository layer to be based on MyBATIS in this tag.

1. add MyBATIS starter
```xml
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.mybatis.spring.boot</groupId>
            <artifactId>mybatis-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
        </dependency>
```
2. configuration
```yaml
mybatis:
  mapper-locations: classpath:mapper/*.xml
  configuration:
    defaultEnumTypeHandler: org.apache.ibatis.type.EnumOrdinalTypeHandler
    mapUnderscoreToCamelCase: true
```
'mybatis.mapper-locations' specifies the location of mapper files. In a maven project, the files should be placed in resources folder.
Otherwise, they may not be included into the jar file.

'mybatis.configuration.defaultEnumTypeHandler' specified enumeration type handler. By default, MyBATIS will use enum name as the value.
In the preceding example, enum ordinal will be used as the corresponding column value.

3. Create mapper interfaces

The MyBatis-Spring-Boot-Starter will search, by default, for mappers marked with the @Mapper annotation.
You may want to specify a custom annotation or a marker interface for scanning. If so, you must use the @MapperScan annotation.
For example, `@MapperScan(basePackages = "com.github.budwing.obo.cinema.mapper")`, it specified a specific scanning package.

```java
@Mapper
public interface CinemaMapper {
    List<Cinema> selectPageable(@Param("start") int start,
                                @Param("size") int size);
    int insertCinema(Cinema cinema);
}
```

4. Create mapper xml file
```xml
<mapper namespace="com.github.budwing.obo.cinema.mapper.CinemaMapper">
    <select id="selectPageable" resultMap="Cinema">
        <![CDATA[
        select * from obo_cinema limit #{start}, #{size}
        ]]>
    </select>
    ......
</mapper>
```
'namespace' is the interface's full qualified name. The 'id' is the method name. It's not mandatory to follow the rules.
But by doing so, MyBATIS can generate an implementation of the interface, and mapped the configuration and the interface automatically.
Alternative way is to auto-ware SqlSessionFactory or SqlSessionTemplate instance, and use them to execute the mapped statement.

### ShardingSphere with SEATA
ShardingSphere does not reinvent the solution of distributed transaction. It uses SEATA as its distributed transaction solution.

1. include
```xml
        <dependency>
            <groupId>com.alibaba.cloud</groupId>
            <artifactId>spring-cloud-starter-alibaba-seata</artifactId>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.apache.shardingsphere</groupId>
            <artifactId>shardingsphere-transaction-base-seata-at</artifactId>
        </dependency>
```
You may also import seata directly, instead of spring-cloud-starter-alibaba-seata
```xml
            <dependency>
                <groupId>io.seata</groupId>
                <artifactId>seata-all</artifactId>
                <version>1.5.2</version>
            </dependency>
```
2. Add configuration for SEATA

Please add '[registry.conf](../obo-cinema/src/main/resources/registry.conf)', '[seata.conf](../obo-cinema/src/main/resources/seata.conf)' and '[file.conf](../obo-cinema/src/main/resources/file.conf)' to the root of the classpath.

3. @ShardingSphereTransactionType(TransactionType.BASE)

Use `@ShardingSphereTransactionType(TransactionType.BASE)` to annotate business method.

## Try yourself
Follow the instructions to finish the tasks
### MyBATIS
1. start mysqld, obo-eureka, obo-seata
2. drop tables in cinemadb, start obo-cinema
3. GET http://localhost:8081/obo/cinema/1/hall/1/seat
4. compare the logs with JPA version of obo-cinema
### Global Transaction
1. check the logs, find out global transaction id
2. check the source code, find out @ShardingSphereTransactionType