## Tag s4.ob.metrics
Expose metrics of service via Spring Actuator

### Observability
Observability is a measure of how well internal states of a system can be inferred from knowledge of its external outputs. 
The external outputs are often called as telemetry data. And telemetry data normally includes metrics, traces, and logs, they are 3 pillars of observability.

A metric is a measurement about a service, captured at runtime. Logically, the moment of capturing one of these measurements is known as a metric event which consists not only of the measurement itself, but the time that it was captured and associated metadata. 
Metrics are very useful for realtime monitoring. They can be used to know the health status of a service, and generate alerts when there are incidents.

Traces give us the big picture of what happens when a request is made by user or an application. In microservice, a single request may be handled through a series of services.
Without tracing ability, we may not be able to know the exact path of this whole process. Traces are usually used to identify the performance bottleneck, because it's very easy to find out which service is time-consuming with the help of traces data.

A log is a timestamped text record, either structured (recommended) or unstructured, with metadata. They normally represent an event in the system. 
Logs are useful to understand what's happening when there's error. They are very important information for the developers/operators to debug.

To add observability to a system, you will have to finish two things. 
1. choose one or more software to store and analyze telemetry data.

   It's the server-side of observability. The software may be very different for each kind of telemetry data. In our case, we choose Prometheus for metrics and Zipkin/Jaeger for trace.

2. instrument the services to emit telemetry data.

   In most of the case, the service won't generate metrics, traces and logs automatically. You need add some pieces of code to expose those data.
Normally this is called instrument. With the help of Spring framework, the instrument is not so complex.

### Spring Actuator
The spring-boot-actuator module provides all of Spring Boot’s production-ready features. One of these production-ready features is the exposure of metrics.
1. add a dependency on the spring-boot-starter-actuator “Starter”
```xml
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
            <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-actuator</artifactId>
        </dependency>
```
2. configure Spring Boot Actuator
```yaml
management:
  endpoints:
    web:
      exposure:
        include: prometheus,info,health,metrics
```
Actuator exposes some endpoints to provide these production-ready features. These endpoints expose themselves over HTTP or JMX.
You can enable or disable each individual endpoint. For example, the preceding configuration enables prometheus,info,health,metrics.
See [here](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/actuator.html#actuator.endpoints.exposing) to find the list of all endpoints.

3. access these endpoints via browser

   Most applications choose exposure over HTTP, where the ID of the endpoint and a prefix of /actuator is mapped to a URL. For example, by default, the health endpoint is mapped to /actuator/health.
So the endpoint for metrics is "http://localhost:8086/actuator/prometheus", access it, and you will get the follow pure text data.

```text
# HELP hikaricp_connections_max Max connections
# TYPE hikaricp_connections_max gauge
hikaricp_connections_max{pool="HikariPool-1",} 10.0
# HELP http_server_requests_seconds Duration of HTTP server request handling
# TYPE http_server_requests_seconds summary
http_server_requests_seconds_count{exception="None",method="GET",outcome="CLIENT_ERROR",status="404",uri="/**",} 3.0
http_server_requests_seconds_sum{exception="None",method="GET",outcome="CLIENT_ERROR",status="404",uri="/**",} 0.0743662
# HELP http_server_requests_seconds_max Duration of HTTP server request handling
# TYPE http_server_requests_seconds_max gauge
http_server_requests_seconds_max{exception="None",method="GET",outcome="CLIENT_ERROR",status="404",uri="/**",} 0.0589859
# HELP tomcat_sessions_created_sessions_total  
# TYPE tomcat_sessions_created_sessions_total counter
tomcat_sessions_created_sessions_total 0.0
```
The data exposed by the endpoint are metrics in [OpenMetrics](https://openmetrics.io/) format. '# HELP ...' is help information of one metric, and '# TYPE ...' shows the type of the metric.
For example, 'hikaricp_connections_max' is a gauge type of metric, it shows the maximum connection of Hikari connection pool.

### Prometheus
After enabling Spring Actuator, we can deploy Prometheus to scrape the metrics data. 
Prometheus is an open-source systems monitoring and alerting toolkit originally built at SoundCloud.
Prometheus joined the Cloud Native Computing Foundation in 2016 as the second hosted project, after Kubernetes.

1. download Prometheus from [here](https://prometheus.io/download/), and uncompress it
2. edit 'prometheus.yml' in the root directory of Prometheus, and modify 'scrape_configs' 
```yaml
scrape_configs:
  # The job name is added as a label `job=<job_name>` to any timeseries scraped from this config.
  - job_name: "prometheus"
    static_configs:
      - targets: ["localhost:9090"]
  - job_name: "obo-cinema"
    metrics_path: "/actuator/prometheus"
    static_configs:
      - targets: ["localhost:8081"]
  - job_name: "obo-movie"
    metrics_path: "/actuator/prometheus"
    static_configs:
      - targets: ["localhost:8082"]
  - job_name: "obo-payment"
    metrics_path: "/actuator/prometheus"
    static_configs:
      - targets: ["localhost:8083"]
  - job_name: "obo-schedule"
    metrics_path: "/actuator/prometheus"
    static_configs:
      - targets: ["localhost:8084"]
  - job_name: "obo-trade"
    metrics_path: "/actuator/prometheus"
    static_configs:
      - targets: ["localhost:8085"]
  - job_name: "obo-id-center"
    metrics_path: "/actuator/prometheus"
    static_configs:
      - targets: ["localhost:8086"]
```
3. run it, and access its UI via "http://localhost:9090/"

### Grafana
Prometheus provides web UI, but it's a little simple for the production. Grafana is a powerful tool to visualize metrics.

1. download Grafana OSS from [here](https://grafana.com/grafana/download?pg=get&platform=linux&plcmt=selfmanaged-box1-cta1&edition=oss), uncompress it
2. run it via `<grafana dir>/bin/grafana-server`, access it UI via `http://localhost:3000/`

   The default username/password is admin/admin. Grafana may ask you to change the default password, you can specify a new password or just skip it.
3. add Prometheus datasource via `http://localhost:3000/datasources`
4. create dashboards and alerts

### Micrometer
The metrics exposed by Spring Actuator only includes some basic metrics about the platform and framework. If you want to expose some business related metrics, like the transaction data, you should add them manually.
There are many libraries to implement customized metrics. For example, Prometheus provides its client-side library to help the user instrument their application.
There are also some vendor-neutral standards and libraries, like [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/), [OpenCensus](https://opencensus.io/) and so on. 
In Spring, we recommend [Micrometer](https://micrometer.io/).

Micrometer is an instrumentation facade, it allows you to instrument your code with dimensional metrics with a vendor-neutral interface and decide on the monitoring system as a last step.
It considers itself as the SLF4J for metrics. 

1. add registry dependency
```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.micrometer</groupId>
  <artifactId>micrometer-registry-prometheus</artifactId>
</dependency>
```
Micrometer has an abstraction of the solution vendors: registry. The preceding configuration adds Prometheus as its metric solution vendor. If you want to use Elasticsearch, just change the registry:
```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.micrometer</groupId>
  <artifactId>micrometer-registry-elastic</artifactId>
</dependency>
```

2. add metrics in the source code
The following code includes three Counter metrics:
```java
    private Counter orderCreateCounter = Metrics.counter("obo_trade_order_create_total");
    private Counter orderCreateSuccessCounter = Metrics.counter("obo_trade_order_create_success_total");
    private Counter orderCreateFailCounter = Metrics.counter("obo_trade_order_create_fail_total");
```
`io.micrometer.core.instrument.Metrics` can be seen as a factory to generate meters. And there's [naming convention](https://prometheus.io/docs/practices/naming/) for metrics.

3. change the value in your business code
```java
  orderCreateCounter.increment();
  // some business code
  if(!success) {
      orderCreateFailCounter.increment();
      return;
  }
```

## Try yourself
Follow the instructions to finish the tasks
### Spring Actuator
1. check whether Spring Actuator in obo-movie is enabled or not, enable it if not
2. start obo-movie
3. access http://localhost:8082/actuator/prometheus in web browser
4. find metric '**_http_server_requests_seconds_count_**' on the page, if you can't find it, refresh the page, explain the reason
5. GET http://localhost:8082/obo/movie, see what the preceding metric change
### Setup Prometheus
1. download Prometheus from its [official download page](https://prometheus.io/download/)
2. uncompress it and change the configuration in prometheus.yml, add the following section at the end of the file:
```yaml
  - job_name: "obo-cinema"
    metrics_path: "/actuator/prometheus"
    static_configs:
      - targets: ["localhost:8081"]
  - job_name: "obo-movie"
    metrics_path: "/actuator/prometheus"
    static_configs:
      - targets: ["localhost:8082"]
  - job_name: "obo-payment"
    metrics_path: "/actuator/prometheus"
    static_configs:
      - targets: ["localhost:8083"]
  - job_name: "obo-schedule"
    metrics_path: "/actuator/prometheus"
    static_configs:
      - targets: ["localhost:8084"]
  - job_name: "obo-trade"
    metrics_path: "/actuator/prometheus"
    static_configs:
      - targets: ["localhost:8085"]
  - job_name: "obo-id-center"
    metrics_path: "/actuator/prometheus"
    static_configs:
      - targets: ["localhost:8086"]
```
3. run prometheus.exe to start it
4. access http://localhost:9090/ in web browser, query '**_http_server_requests_seconds_count_**'
5. click Graph and see its graph changes
### Setup Grafana
1. download Grafana OSS from [here](https://dl.grafana.com/oss/release/grafana-10.1.4.windows-amd64.zip), uncompress it
2. run it via `<grafana dir>/bin/grafana-server`, access it UI via `http://localhost:3000/`

   The default username/password is admin/admin. Grafana may ask you to change the default password, you can specify a new password or just skip it.
3. add Prometheus datasource via `http://localhost:3000/connections/datasources`
4. create dashboards and alerts
### Add metrics
1. start mysqld, ShardingSphere Proxy, obo-seata, zookeeper, kafka
2. start obo-trade, obo-schedule, obo-payment
3. create order and check 'obo_trade_order_create_total', 'obo_trade_order_create_success_total' and 'obo_trade_order_create_fail_total'
4. create dashboard to show the successful rate of order creation
5. (optional) try adding metrics for payment order creation, like 'obo_payment_order_create_total'